In this video, we are going
to work with area charts.
Area charts are very
similar to line chats,
in that they show
change over time.
The key difference being,
that the area
between the line and
the x-axis is shaded in.
For example, taking
our long-term CO2,
I'm going to come up
to "Chart Design",
come to "Change Chart Type",
come down to "Area",
and choose area chart,
and when I say "Okay",
very similar, but arguably,
a little bit more eye-catching.
There are, however, situations
where the area chart may
prove to be a more
effective visualization.
Let's look at an example.
We are going to come to
emissions by region,
and Rowan has already
created a line chart,
tracking the increase
in emissions
by the major world regions.
Unfortunately this
chart is really messy,
and so not so easy to read.
What Rowan would
ideally like to show is
the proportional increase
by region in emissions,
as well as the total increase,
and he can do this by using
a stacked area chart.
Very similar to the
stacked column chart
we saw in our first
topic this week.
We're going to click on the
"Emissions by Region" chart,
and we're going to come
to "Change Chart Type".
We're going to come
down to "Area",
and if we were to choose just
the standard area chart,
you can see that's not really
going to solve the problem.
If anything, it's
making it worse,
because I can't see
all the areas that are
hidden behind the others.
I'm not going to
choose that option.
I'm going to choose the "Stacked
Area", we're going to say,
"Okay", and there is a
very attractive,
and readable chart.
Great. Let's copy that.
Just click on the
edge, Control C,
come back to our line and area,
and we'll just pop that into B31.
Now we've got one final example
that we're going to
create from scratch.
We are going to come
to our last tab,
which are emissions by sector,
but here Rowan wants to do
something quite different.
He actually wants to see how
the different sectors proportional
contributions to CO2,
have changed over time.
We're not looking for
the actual amount,
but the proportion.
A bit more like a pie chart.
For this, we're going to use
a 100 percent stacked chart.
Start by clicking into C3,
hold Control Shift down,
and press your right arrow,
and your down arrow.
Then release Control and Shift,
and then we're going to
come to our "Insert".
We're going to come
across to line chart,
but we're going to choose the
100 percent stacked area,
and this will show us
the percentage contribution
of each of our sectors.
With the chart still selected,
we're going to come to "Format",
and we're going to make it again,
14 high by 24 wide,
like the last video,
and now I'm just
going to move it up
so you can see it more easily.
Again, we're going to need
to fix our horizontal axis.
So good revision.
We can come to "Chart Design",
"Select Data", click "Edit,
under Horizontal Category Axis.
Click onto 1960, and
Control Shift down arrow,
and then press Enter,
and click "Okay".
Of course, we should give
this chart a proper title.
Clicking into "Chart Title",
I'm going to press Control A,
and type emissions by sector.
Then one final little formatting
tweak we'd like to make,
instead of showing the
labels on the legend,
we would actually like to see
the labels on the segments,
again, more like a pie chart.
We are going to come to
our "Chart Elements",
we're going to turn
off our Legend,
and instead we're going to
turn our Data Labels on.
But, oh, dear, what a mess.
Instead of putting
the series label,
it's put the value labels.
But we can easily change this.
Click onto one set
of data labels,
and then another way to get
that panel on the right open,
we're going to right-click,
and "Format Data Labels".
Now you see at the moment
it's showing the value.
We're going to antique value,
and turn Series Name on.
Now unfortunately, we have to do
these one at a time,
but it's pretty quick.
We're just going
to antique value,
turn on series, and then
repeat that for
each of our series.
Now, this will probably look
a little better in white.
I'm going to come to my
"Home" tab, make them white,
maybe increase the size,
and then to apply
that to the others,
I'm going to use
my Format Painter.
I'm going to double-click
the "Format Painter",
and then just single-click
onto each of my labels.
We should apply the
same formatting.
Then single-click on your "Format
Painter" again, to turn it off.
Now let's select our
whole chart, Control C,
come back to our
line and area chart,
pop it into P31 to
complete your emissions
overview reports.
One last thing we're
going to talk about in
this video, and that's colors.
When we're using visualizations,
obviously, colors
are very important,
and it may be that the
colors you see here,
will not represent
your organization
or the type of data that
you're trying to represent.
Now there are two ways
you can approach this.
For example, come into
Emissions by Region.
These two last series are
not really standing out.
I'm going to click on
the second last series,
and I'm going to come
to my "Format" tab,
to my "Shape Fill",
and you've got some Theme Colors.
Generally, I'd recommend, use
the Theme Colors, but
if you don't want to,
you can come to
"More Fill Colors"
"Custom" and there's so
much you can choose from.
I'm going to come
back to "Standard",
and I'm going to go for quite a
dark blue and say, "Okay".
I'm going to choose
my last series,
and I'm just going to
make that a light blue.
That's one way you
could approach it.
But we've already created
quite a lot of charts,
and to manually go
and change each of
the colors in each
of those charts,
is going to be very
time-consuming,
and we also run the risk
of losing consistency.
A better approach is to come
to your "Page Layout" tab,
come to the "Themes" button,
which controls the colors
used within your workbook,
and you'll see, as I hover
over the different themes,
it completely changes
the color scheme,
and sometimes the font
scheme within your workbook.
When you find one that
you like the look of,
you can click, to
apply the changes.
Now you'll notice that
has also changed my font,
and if I don't want
that to happen,
you can mix and match.
If I come back to "Fonts",
I can just set it
back to "Calibri",
and you could just go
and change your colors.
You even have the option to come
down to Customize Colors,
and you can go and set up
your own colors
scheme altogether.
We're not going to
do that now, though.
You'll notice having
changed our colors,
all the colors in the workbook,
not just on this sheet,
but on the pies and donuts,
and the techniques, have changed
except for those two blues
that I added before,
and that's because they
weren't theme colors.
The benefit of
using Theme Colors,
is when you change your theme,
the colors all change.
Now I'm going to go back,
I'm going to undo,
and set it back to the
colors that I had before,
because I really
like those colors.
But you have a play,
find a color scheme
that works for you.